The last thing for this section that
I wanted to cover is the standard.
So for folks that have done any digging
into CSS spec, JavaScript spec,
HTML spec,
these things always have groups.
They're all part of the W3.
They have these working
groups where things have to
go through the process of committee,
get decided on.
All the major browsers weigh in,
all these very process heavy thing.
Accessibility is no different.
So they have the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines or WCAG.
And so WCAG,
that's the entire spec, right?
That's gonna be like,
here are the requirements or
here's what makes a good accessible app.
Here are different rule sets,
all these different things.
They also provide, which is maybe more
helpful, three conformance levels.
And this is something that we're
gonna see kind of as a theme
throughout the workshop.
So there's A, AA, and AAA.
And so AAA is the absolute
highest compliance level.
That would be, if you think of an example,
say you have an app where you let users
kinda draw with their mouse or
something like that.
Then maybe A would be just some
description around it saying, hey,
this is an area for
mouse only users to be able to draw.
And maybe AA would be a description and
then the ability to do a little bit,
like maybe tab through some of the options
and add things with your keyboard.
And then AAA would be figuring out
maybe using the arrow keys for
a fully robust way of doing the same
thing, but with the keyboard only.
And so we'll see this a lot with very
specific examples where we'll do
an example on forms and we'll see well
what makes you A compliant, AA, and AAA.
And so when doing accessibility
work like contract work,
often clients will have their
requirement to be AA compliant.
And you'll have to kinda know
how to look those things up.
So we'll go over that.
The problem with these specs is
they're really tough to parse, right?
They're big, they're wordy.
They're very much designed by committee.
They're a little bit hard to understand.
And so there's this really
cool group called WebAIM.
And WebAIM is an org that provides again,
not the official spec, but
they provide a really nice user-friendly
checklist with their recommendation.
So let me open this checklist just so
we can kind of get a feel for it.
This is
webaim.org/standards/wcag/checklist.
And so we'll kind of see,
if we scroll down a little bit,
that they have these little sections like
text alternatives for non text content.
And then they'll say, images,
form image buttons and
image map hot spots have
appropriate alternative text.
And then next to it over here, they'll
say what level of compliance that is.
So this is just level A compliance and
there is no AA or AAA,
whereas we'll see for
some of these down here, we'll see for
an example here transcripts for
non-live audio.
There's a level A compliance, so
a transcript has to be there.
And then there's level AA,
synchronized captions are provided.
And then there's AAA,
a sign language video is provided, so
you can kind of understand.
I hope that illustrates a good example of,
okay, so WCAG specifies what you need for
audio and for video.
And then WCAG also specifies
the three conformance levels.
And WebAIM tries to do a really nice job
of just kinda distilling that into easy to
use, easy to read things.
And so a note on this course says
as we go through the things,
I'll be using the WebAIM checklist for
each thing that we learn.
So we'll learn about alternative text and
then we'll use the checklist to see, okay,
what are the levels of conformance for
that?
>> What is UC?
>> It's a university.
I grabbed this quote because I really
liked it from University of California.
Sorry about that.
And then I think that was just
a little bit of an error on my part.
Yes, I grabbed this quote because I
really liked the explanation of ranges,
A, AA, and AAA.
I think they're referencing themselves
in here as University of California.
Sorry about that.
>> What is Aria?
>> Aria, we have a full section on it.
But that's a great question.
What is Aria?
So HTML provides a fair amount of
things to make things accessible but
there are limitations,
which we'll hit later.
ARIA is a W3 spec as well.
It's in the same kinda group that do HTML,
CSS and JavaScript.
And they are accessible
ability focused helpers.
So for example, an image would have
a source and an alt attribute.
But if you needed to do something like
label it, you could use aria-label.
And we'll cover examples of that.
But basically they're additive to the HTML
spec, and they work in all browsers.
And they're things that help
specifically with accessibility.
So labeling,
telling what the role of something is,
like if we're using a div as a button
is a common accessibility example.
There's a role attribute, which is part
of Aria to say, hey, screen readers,
this is actually a button.
So it's a big suite of helpers that are
all in HTML to help with accessibility.
And it's Accessible Rich Internet
Applications, but yeah, it's a spec for
accessibility helping.